《绝命毒师》讲述了老白
Breaking Bad follows the descent of Walter White 
和小粉的走上犯罪道路的故事
and Jesse Pinkman into the criminal world.
这部剧是真滴牛叉
The show itself is groudbreaking 
基本上啥奖都拿过
and received multiple Guinness World Records 
算得上目前最高评价的剧了
for being the highest-rated TV show of all time.
今儿咱就讲讲50个剧里的彩蛋
Today I'll be revisiting this iconic series 
来回顾一下这部标志性的剧集
by bringing you 50 facts 
（我赌你都没听过）
you didn't know about Breaking Bad.
1.在小粉和Tuco打架的那集
1.During a fight scene between Jesse and Tuco,
Aaron Paul不小心被狠锤了一下
Aaron Paul ended up getting knocked unconscious 
导致了脑震荡 最后要叫医生来处理
and actually got a concussion for which he needed medical attention.
2.Aaron Paul没上过任何表演课程
2.Aaron Paul has never taken any acting classes. 
在Reddit论坛上他说
During Reddit AMA(asked me anything) he said
”我一直都在想，诶，把你自己代入其中
 "I always just thought hey, pretend you're being someone else 
自然一点就挺好
and that's all there's to it."
3.由于剧集太成功了
3.Due to the success of the show, 
有的毒贩也开始往冰毒里加蓝色色素
some drug dealers have actually started adding blue dye 
来打造自己的品牌
to their crystal meth in an effort to brand their product.
4.值得一提的是剧中的蓝色冰毒实际上只是硬糖
4.Addtionally, the blue crystal meth scene in the show is just rock candy.
Bryan Cranston的确知道冰毒的制作过程
5.Bryan Cranston knows the exact process for cooking meth. 
因为出于剧情需要，DEA的化学家确实有教他怎么制毒
Because DEA chemists taught him how to cook it for some of the scenes
6.Vince Gilligan制作的X档案里
6.Vince Gilligan produced the X-File 
有一集是由老白，Hank和小粉主演
which had episodes featuring Bryan Cranston(White) Dean Norris(Hank) and Aaron Paul(Jesse)
John Cusack和Matthew Broderick曾经拒绝了老白这个角色
7.John Cusack and Matthew Broderick both turned down the role of Walter White,
之后Vince Gilligan向电视台高层推荐了Bryan Cranston
then Vince Gilligan showed AMC execs Bryan Cranston in an episode of X-File 
成了
and they were sold.
8.《走近科学》证明过：整再多的氢氟酸
8.MythBusters has shown that no amount of hydrofluoric acid 
也不能腐蚀掉那个可怜的浴缸
could have ever eaten through that tub
Aaron Paul为了摸透小粉这个角色
9.Aaron Paul spent hours with addicts and ex-addicts 
曾经接触过一些吸毒者和戒毒者
when researching the role of Jesse.
他说这让他看到人的另外一面
He said it enabled him to see a very different side of people.
10.西班牙人尝试过复制《绝命毒师》这部剧
10.There was a Spanish remaked the show called metastasis.
老白变成了Walter Blanco,小粉变成了Jose...
Walter White became Walter Blanco.Jesse was turned into Jose and Hank turned into Henry. 
用屁股想就知道那部剧贼烂
Needless to say, the show was terribly reviewed 
大概是因为他们只用了三个月就拍了62集吧
as they managed to cram all 62 episodes into only a timeframe of three months.
11.拍摄的最后一天，老白脱光了走在超市那一集
11.on the last day of shooting,Bryan Cranston stripped down and walked around the set nude.
Aaron Paul说"当时那个糟老头子TM一有机会就给我看他的PP"
Aaron Paul said about the situation"any time he can have the opportunity to show me his ass he does."
12.老白剧里穿的那套内衣裤卖了一万刀
12.Walter White's underwear sold for almost ten thousand dollars 
Walt Whitman书的复印本也卖了65500刀
also a copy of Walt Whitman's Leaves of Grass went for 65,500$ 
Hector的叮叮居然卖了9530刀！
and Hector Salamanca's bell made 9,530$.
13.Jane死之前就有很多flag暗示她biss了
13.Jane's death was foreshadowed a lot in the script.
14.拍绝命毒师第五季拍到一半的时候
14.Dean Norris or Hank was offered a role on a comedy sitcom 
Hank收到过一份喜剧工作的邀请
during the filming of the first half of Breaking Bad season five. 
他建议Vince Gilligan老板在前八集就把hank安排盒饭了
Norris suggested to creator Vince Gilligan that perhaps killing Hank within the first eight episodes 
但是老板说不行，你要拍14集才能溜，听我的
would be a great ending but Gilligan politely denied his request.(died in 14)
15.第二季坠毁的那架飞机很像1986年Cerritos空中相撞事件
15.the plane crash at the end of season two is very much like the 1986 Cerritos mid-air collision. 
事实上，当时的导致两架飞机相撞的那个航空交通管理员的名字就叫做Walter White
In fact, the name of the junior air-traffic controller who's guiding the plane prior to the crash was also named Walter White.
16.在最后一集里，镜头聚焦在新罕布什尔州的车牌上
16.In the final episode, the camera focuses on a New Hampshire license plate 
车牌上写着的"不自由,毋宁死"不仅是第五季的首映名
which is branded with the state's motto "live free or die" not only is this the name of the season five premiere.
还是老白和小粉命运的一种暗示（小粉的电影里有呼应）
It also speaks to both the fate of Jesse and Walt.
这一幕是在致敬Quentin Tarantino导演的电影《落水狗》里标志性的一个瞬间
17.This scene is very reminiscent of an iconic moment in Quentin Tarantino's film Reservoir Dogs. 
除了老白和小粉的姿势和这部1992年的电影里的一毛一样以外
Walt and Jesse's positions are the same as the characters in the 1992 movie 
他们的名字也有刻意的呼应
and the names bears some striking similarities. 
电影里Steve Buscemi的名字叫粉哥儿，而Harvey Keitel叫白先生。有点意思？
Steve Buscemi's name is Mr.Pink in Reservoir Dogs and Harvey Keitel's is Mr.White. Sounds familiar?
18.颜色的象征手法贯穿了整部剧。
18.Color symbolism was present throughout all of Breaking Bad.
随着老白的黑化，他衣服的颜色变得越来越深
Walter White's clothes got darker throughoutthe seasons just like his character did. 
一开始的时候老白穿的还是白色，黄色这种浅色衣服
In the beginning of the series he wore lighter clothes such as whites and yellows 
但到了后来他的衣服开始出现黑色和蓝色
but towards the end his attire consisted of black and blues 
象征着老白最终变成一个怪物了
symbolizing the monster he had become.
19.绝命毒师只有62集，这个数字是有由头的
19.Breaking Bad ended up being 62 episodes for a reason. 
在元素周期表里，62号元素是钐，在肺癌治疗里有关键性作用
On the periodic table the 62 element is samarium which is essential in helping to treat lung cancer.
20.为了第四季结局里炸鸡叔那半张脸，Vince Gilligan
20.For the season 4 finale face off, Vince Gilligan recruited the prosthetic effects team 
从《行尸走肉》那里弄来了整只特效化妆团队来为炸鸡叔的头做模型
behind the Walking Dead to make a model of Gustavo Fring mutilated head.
模型由Jean Carlos的头数字构建而成，整个过程花了几个月
The model was then digitally blended with Jean Carlos real head a process which took months.
21.老白在剧里的房子是一个叫Fran的阿姨的家产
21.Walter White's house in Breaking Bad has been the real-life home of a woman called Fran since 1973.
她说确实给了剧组很多特权来折腾她的房子内部
She admits that a lot of artistic license was taken with the property's interior 
就比如Gilligan一开始想把泳池给填了
by the production designer and that Gilligan originally wanted to cover the pool up 
她也不介意每个月都有好多车在她家门口停滞不前
and she doesn't mind the hundreds of cars that slowed down in front of her house every month.
22.阿尔伯克基州的The Sage Neuroscience Center诊所用绝命毒师做宣传
22.The Sage Neuroscience Center in Albuquerque is using Breaking Bad 
来帮助帮助新墨西哥人戒毒
to help get New Mexicans off drugs. 
这个州有全美最高的吸毒率
The state has the highest rate of addiction in the U.S.
通过分享成瘾的心路历程，参与者们有机会获得戒毒基金
By sharing the stories of addiction, entrants have the chance to
使他们有机会免费接受12周的恢复治疗
win one of two breaking addiction scholarships which entitle them to 12 weeks of free rehabilitation treatment 
值好几千刀呢
worth thousands of dollars.
23.剧组是在一家叫Twisters真的炸鸡店拍完了所有剧中Los Pollos Hermanos炸鸡店相关的戏份
23.The cast and crew ended up shooting the Los Pollos Hermanos scenes in a real restaurant called Twisters.
剧组的美术部门画了一个Logo在房子上
The show's art department painted the fictional logo inside the building.
Gilligan说我觉得那个logo应该会被留几个月吧
Gilligan said "I believe it stayed up there for months on end."
但就我所知，那个logo直到今天都没被抹掉
For all I know it might still be there to this day. 
Twisters炸鸡店也因为这个logo变成了网红景点，自然舍不得拆
It isn't he's still in place probably because twisters has become quite the tourist attraction.
24.服装设计师Kathleen Detoro说老白一开始戴Heisenberg的帽子
24.Costume designer kathleen Detoro admitted that the original reason Cranston started wearing the Heisenberg hat 
是因为光头怕太阳晒
is because he needed to shade his bald head from the sun.
Tuco本来应该是第二季的大boss
25.Raymond Curz or Tuco was meant to be the main antagonist all the way through season 2. 
但是他第一季就领盒饭了，因为他在《罪案终结》里成了主要角色，不能天天出现在毒师里了
He met his end in season 1 because he became a regular on The Closer and can no longer appear in Breaking Bad. 
Gilligan发现只能把Tuco这个角色给安排了才能把故事讲下去
When Gilligan realized there was only one way that Tuco's story could go,
他记起Henry Fonda导演的电影《罗伯茨先生》里，Jack Lemmon扮演的角色
he remembered Mr. Roberts the Henry Fonda movie in which Jack Lemmon character is always 
总是用炸药炸毁旧海军舰上的东西
blowing up things on this old navy ship with mercury fulminate. 
Gilligan在绝命毒师官方图书中说
Gilligan explains in Breaking Bad the official book that 
当他发现雷酸汞看起来有点像冰毒的时候才松了一口气
he was relieved to find out that mercury fulminate kinda sorta looked like crystal meth 
塑造Heisenberg形象的标志性爆炸事件就诞生了
and with that one of the formative Heisenberg moments was created.
去年Vince Gilligan联系到了一个16岁的癌症末期的小男孩
26.Last year Vince Gilligan was contacted by the parents a 16 year old Kevin Cordasco who is terminally ill with cancer 
同时小男孩还是绝命毒师的铁粉，他爸说，老白身上有种特别的东西
and one of the biggest fans of Breaking Bad."There was something about the Walter White character" explained his father.
老白控制病情的方法和Kevin产生了共鸣
The way took control of his illness in his life that really resonated with Kevin. 
Gilligan和全体工作人员去拜访了Kevin
Gilligan and the cast visited Kevin at his home and in the hospital. 
有一次拜访中，Gilligan问小男孩，你有没有觉得剧里缺了点什么?
And during one of these visits he was asked by Gilligan what he felt was missing from the show? 
他说，这样讲吧，我想了解更多Gretchen 和 Elliott（老白初期创业伙伴）的故事
He said you know what, I want to know more about Gretchen and Elliott. 
我想了解更多关于老白的过去和他们的故事，过去发生了什么。
I want to know more about Walt's backstory with them. I want to know what happended. 
这也是老白之前灰质公司的创业伙伴在最后一季中落得如此下场的原因
This was how Walter's former Gray Matter business partners ended up with a pivotal role in the final series. 
Gilligan甚至愿意告诉小男孩毒师的结局，但是小男孩拒绝了
Gilligan even offered to tell him how the show would end. Kevin declined, 
他说他宁愿自己慢慢看算了，和全世界的其他普通人一样
saying he'd rather find out alone with the rest of the world.
小男孩不久之后去世了，第五季第九集就是剧组给他的最后的礼物
Kevin Cordasco died soon after in the ninth episode of season 5 is dedicated to him.
27.绝命毒师本打算在加州河滨市拍摄的，
27.Breaking Bad was originally supposed to be shot in Riverside California, 
但是地点最后改到了新墨西哥州得阿尔伯克基市
but the location was ultimately changed to Albuquerque New Mexico 
这个变化给新墨西哥州得旅游业带来了爆炸性的增长
that change of setting has certainly been a boon for the New Mexico tourism industry. 
得益于绝命毒师的热度，本地的商业获得了巨大利益
Local businessed have taken advantage of the hit shows worldwide popularity 
通过制作绝命毒师的周边来获利
and cashed in by producing all manner of Breaking Bad related products. 
商品包括蓝冰毒色的糖果，蓝毒色的甜甜圈，本地酿造的海森堡黑啤
These include blue meth candy, blue meth doughnuts, locally brewed Heisenberg dark beer 
还有可定制的海森堡铅笔
and even custom-made Heisenberg Pens dispensers.
28.甲胺，对，就是那个引发偷火车事件的甲胺，其实也没那么难获得
28.Methylamine the chemical that led to the Train Robbery isn't really that hard to make. 
事实上有化学大佬说在家里厨房的水槽里就能合成，也不算太费事
In fact, some chemists have suggested that it could be synthesized in a kitchen sink without too much difficulty. 
但是节目效果需要，你懂的（拦停火车真chi激）
But that would make for goord TV.
Jonathan Banks本来戏份不算多
29.Jonathan Banks had a much smaller part, 
但是有一个演员因故缺席了，他只好饰演老麦这个重要的角色
but was given a bigger role in Mike when another actor was unavailable to work.
30.当Vince Gilligan发现《单身毒妈》里有和毒师类似的设定时
30.Vince Gilligan didn't want to continue with Breaking Bad 
他就不太想继续拍毒师了
when he found out that the show Weeds had a similar premise. 
他说如果他早点知道这个剧，他甚至就不会创作《绝命毒师》了
He said later if he had known earlier about the show, he would'n have even created Breaking Bad.
31.当拍摄塑造妓女Wendy形象的那一集时
31.While filming a scene featuring Wendy the prostitute, 
真有一个老哥以为演员是真的妓女，还试着约她上车
filming was interrupted by a person who thought she was a real hooker 
导致拍摄被中断
and tried to pick her up.
32.当Dean Norris试镜的时候，他一度以为这是一个喜剧
32.When Dean Norris auditioned for Breaking Bad, he thought it was a comedy. 
这也直接导致他塑造出了一个比编剧设想中的更丰满的角色
This led to him portraying a deeper version of the character that the writers had intended. 
33.绝命毒师中一共死了269人，算上了第二季中那场空难的人数
33.A total of 269 people have died throughout Breaking Bad, including the plane crash.
34.看了第五季第14集《奥兹曼迪斯》后，马丁老爷子(权游头号粉丝)说
34.After watching season 5 episode 14 Ozymandias, George RR Martin called Walter White 
老白比权游里面任何一个人都可怕
a bigger monster than anyone in Game of Thrones 
而且承诺在下一本书中写一点关于这方面的东西
and vowed to do something about that in his next book.
35.在获得老白这个角色的20年前
35.Nearly two decades before landing the role of Walter White, 
Bryan Cranston演过《超凡战队》
Bryan Cranston was in the Power Rangers.
36.第二季的第1，4，10和13集都有黑白的预告片介绍
36.The first, fourth, tenth and 13th episondes of season two all have black and white teaser intros 
当你把这几集的的名字结合起来后，你会得到“ 737 在阿尔伯克基坠毁”
and when you combine the episode titles, you get "737 Down Over ABQ", 
预示着第二季末的空难
foreshadowing the plane crash at the end of the season.
37.
37.In the scene that Vince Gilligan called a one-in-a-million shot,Bryan Cranston managed to throw the pizza onto the roof in the very first take.
38.While filming the episode during which Walt kills Mike, the entire crew were black armbands to mark Jonathan Banks final episonde.
39.Walt Junior actor RJ Mitte does have cerebral palsy but not as severely as his character and can walk without crutches. In fact, he needed to learn how to walk with crutches for the show.
40.Marius Stan Walt's boss at the carwash has a PhD in chemistry. He decided to go into acting in his 40 with Breaking Bad being his first role.
41.Walt Junior is the only major character that Jesse never meets.
42.As Walt drives back to New Mexico in the final episode, he lisetens to a song called EI Paso by Marty Robbins. It tells of a guy who returns to the town where he is a wanted man to find the women he loves, Felina, which is where the episode gets its name.
43.As well as being anagram of finale, some have pointed out that Felina can be split up into Fe, Li, Na, the chemical symbols for iron, lithium and sodium. Or in other words, blood meth and tears.
44.Aaron Paul and Bryan Cranston got Breaking Bad tattoos to commemorate their time on the show. Paul's tattoo says no half measures which is the name of an episode from season 3 and a reference to a mount between Walt and Mike. And as you can see, Cranston got a very tiny tattoo of the show's logo.
45.Unlike most dramas which tend to decrease in popularity as they go on, Breaking Bad only got bigger. Through most of its run the show is bringing in a steady viewership of 1.5 million which is still pretty impressive but as it entered its last season things began to pick up. The first half of season five saw audience numbers jumped by a million and once it entered ist final run, the series was easily breaking five million with the finale bringing in a whopping 10.28 million.
46.The Breaking Bad casting team actively tried to insert comedy people into the show. Talking about it Gilligan said it wasn't like we went lookin to hire comedians, it's just that I've got a theory that if you can do comedy, first of all you have to be able to act and there are plenty of stand-up comedians who are not actors but if you are an actor at heart and you're also a comedian, you can do drama. Bryan Cranston, Bill Burr, Lavelle Crawford and Bob Odenkirk are some of the notable comedians cast in Breaking Bad.
47.Jonathan Banks was so good during his audition that the casting note read doesn't get any better so good.
48.Each episode except the pilot had eight days of shooting. The pilot had 14 and eventually was extended to 15 because Vince Gilligan got the flu.
49.Saul Goodman is named after the phrase "it's all good man" 
50.The very last scene shot for Breaking Bad with a flashback in the van during the opening of Ozymandias.